---           
layout: post
title: Change is.
updated: 2015-02-10 23:44:45 SGT
tags: [tumblr, ruby, gems, updating, security, treadmill, overhead, necessary evil]
categories: [not yet categorised]
comments: true
fullview: false
---

Change is good. Change is a sign of life. Change that *moves you towards your goal* is a Good Thing&trade;.

Change that makes you run around the same circle over and over again is *not* such a Good Thing.

OpenSSL has had security Issues for quite some time. Recently, like in the last year or so, it's been getting updated more regularly as problems get addressed.

"Good", you say. "Secure data is what the Internet relies on, isn't it?" Well, no; not exactly. And closer to home, every Ruby developer dreads seeing that message from their package manager of choice saying "Your `openssl` version has been updated".

Because, if you're using a version manager like [RVM](http://rvm.io/) or [`rbenv`](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv), that means you get to go reinstall *every* Ruby version you need to run on your system.

Here's basically what I do. I'm using `rbenv` with a current production Ruby of 2.1.4 on a Mac; your setup will differ based on how different *your* system is. (Translation: Don't come crying to me if this doesn't work for you. You're smart enough to *use* Ruby; you're smart enough to *fix* it, with a little help from [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com)):

**Step 1:** Run `rbenv versions`. This presently gives me output of

```
  system
  2.0.0-p481
* 2.1.4 (set by /usr/local/rbenv/version)
  2.2.0-preview1
```

**Step 2:** Nuke from orbit. (Note that I'm running on OS X 10.8.5... yeah, yeah...)

```
$ rbenv global system
$ rbenv rehash
$ ruby --version
ruby 1.8.7 (2012-02-08 patchlevel 358) [universal-darwin12.0]
$ rm -rf $RBENV_ROOT/versions/*
```

**Step 3:** Reinstall "main" Ruby version and systemwide Gems. The `say "All done" is so Daniel tells me when it's done, so I can go do other things and come back.

```
$ rbenv install 2.1.4 && say "All done"
$ rbenv global 2.1.4
$ gem install rails rspec simplecov pry-{bloodline,doc,docmore,byebug,stack_explorer,rescue,theme,pretty-numeric,highlight,editline,git} awesome_print bond jist jeweler lotusrb lotus-{model,helpers} padrino padrino-{assets,flash} rubycritic && say "all done"
$ rbenv rehash
$ gem cleanup
```

**Step 4:** Lather; rinse; repeat for every other Ruby version needed on the system. Remember that `openssl` is *statically* linked into Ruby *and* it has to match the current (latest security-update-driven) version on the system.

```
$ rbenv global system && rbenv rehash
# ...
$ gem cleanup
$ rbenv global 2.1.4 && rbenv rehash
```

Now you can get started on what you set out to do this morning… after tea break.
